# The Role of Gender in the Film Industry

## w209 Final Project - UC Berkeley MIDS

## Shalini Kunapuli, Anusha Mohan, Anjali Unnithan, Lavanya Vijayan, Jacky Wong


Hollywood is one of the oldest film industries in the world but it is not perfect. Gender inequality in Hollywood and the media in general is a long-standing issue, related to the difference in pay between men and women, difference in opportunities and roles, and more. Ageism is another issue in the industry: Hollywood has pushed actresses out as they age, due to the male gaze and gendered beauty standards, which emphasize the notion that women need to look “young” to be desirable and valuable. Meanwhile, most actors do not experience this.

As students who love watching films, we wanted to take a closer look at the Hollywood film industry and visualize some of the relationships between film stars, costars, film genre, film year, box office revenue, and more. We aim to convey, at a scale of 40 stars, a narrative about ageism and sexism in Hollywood over time, through our visualizations.


We collected data on a subset of popular actors and actresses in the Hollywood film industry. Our data sources were the following:

1. IMDbPY - We extracted data through a Python package called IMDbPY. By calling certain functions from the package, we retrieved information about films, including cast, directors, screenwriters, year of release, and other metadata. We also retrieved information film stars, including their date of birth, their performances, their costars, trivia facts, and more. For reference, documentation of this package can be found on this site.

2. The Numbers: Where Data and the Movie Business Meet - We extracted information about worldwide, domestic, and international box office revenue generated by films on this site.

We then put together three datasets, which we used to create the data visualizations you see on this website:

1. Stars and Their Costars - This dataset contains information about each star we chose as well as which films they have been in, and the top 5 costars who costarred in those films with them. It also has information about stars’ birthyears and costars' birthyears.

2. Film Genres - This dataset contains information about the number of films each star has performed in each genre.

3. Box Office Revenue - This dataset contains information about each film and how much it made in box office revenue ($).

In this repo are the Tableau workbooks used to generate the dashboards and visualizations, as well as the HTML/CSS files used to see the full website with the Tableau dashboards embedded in them.

The website is also hosted through the ISchool: apps-spring21.ischool.berkeley.edu/~anushamohan/w209
